No Dice 1.0.0 Notes-----------------3/29/95by Andrew Welch/Ambrosia Software, Inc.     No Dice is a simple Extension that automatically ignores dice rolls in AOL chat rooms.  "Why would anyone bother to write something like this?" you ask?  Well some overzealous folks in chat rooms seem to revel in flooding the chat room with dice rolls (typing //roll in any chat room rolls dice), and AOL provides no facility for ignoring these dice rolls.  So of course, I figured something had to be done about the situation.     To install No Dice, simply drag the "No Dice" file onto your System Folder icon, then restart your computer.  No Dice does not show its icon at startup time like most other Extensions simply because I couldn't find any "ShowInit" source that had been ported to Code Warrior, and I didn't feel like writing my own for this small project.     No Dice is completely free, but it is NOT in the public domain.  It is ©1995 by Ambrosia Software, Inc.     Yes, this is a petty, trivial Extension.  However it was fun to write, and may improve your quality of life while chatting online in an AOL chat room.  No Dice was also a learning experience for me: it was the first program I wrote using Code Warrior, Metrowerk's most excellent development environment.     The complete source code to No Dice has been included in this archive for those who are interested in such things.  It is definitely a nasty hack because I had to find a way to retrofit it onto AOL, but it does work.  I had planned on making it PowerPC native, but alas patching _TEDispatch requires some assembly on the 68K side, so I didn't bother rewriting it for the PPC.     Enjoy!     Disclaimer:  Ambrosia Software, Inc. is not responsible for any damage to the purchaser's computer system or data and in no event will Ambrosia Software, Inc., its officers, directors, employees or agents be responsible to the purchaser for any consequential, incidental, or indirect damages (including damages for loss of business profits, business interruption, loss of business information and the like) arising out of the use or inability to use the Ambrosia Software, Inc. product, even if Ambrosia Software, Inc. has been advised of the possibility of such damages.  Because some states do not allow the exclusion or limitation of liability for consequential or incidental damages, the above limitations may not apply to you.