ell, I'm back, whether you like it or not, with yet another
version of the ever lovable AOMESS.

Let's get this straight from the beginning....
If you're lookin for a scroller or a CC Generator, this ain't it.

AOMESS is just a program to make AOL a little more interesting.
This is NOT, nor will it ever be, some AOPreTeenToolZ program
to use for scrolling pot leaves in chat rooms or the usual annoyance
that the lamer class of AOL so desires doing.

I'd really like to write something like Doomsday, AOHell, or LucyX,
but I suck at programming, so that won't happen any time soon.
Until then, I'm stuck with this MESS of mine, and I hope you like it.
Now, then, here's the lowdown on the MESS:


BFIX		BombFixer clears your NEW MAIL of those 'special' massmails that
		you end up with after telling some lamer that no one in the room is
		interested in answering AGE/SEX/LOC for the eighth time.
BUST		Used to bust into an available or private room. Also, if you already
		tried to enter the room by using AOL's 'GO' button, there's a GO/OK
		button that just keeps sending SPACE to repeatedly try to enter the
		room.  Note: DON'T FORGET TO HIT CANCEL ONCE YOU'RE IN!!!
MSGMIX	The AOMESS Message Mixer takes whatever you type and changes
		it to a) EliteTalk b) Backwards c) AOMsg  all on one form. Just hit the
		appropriate SEND button, and it's sent to the chat room.
3LINE		AOMESS's 3-line scroller sends three lines at a time to the chat room
		so that you can say what you'd like beyond that one line limit. 
MSG		AOMessages are encrypted (poorly, but still encrypted) messages for
		sending to other AOMESS users in a chat room. You'll have to do the
		ol' Ctrl-C/Ctrl-V cut and paste routine for this one. Also, if you double-
		click in either input box, you can quickly clear it.
DAU		DaUsuals is a place to store five frequent phrases for sending to chat
		rooms or Email or whatever. Double-clicking here also clears the box.
LOAD		Loads AOL, but remember to put the AOL path in the OPTS section or
		AOMESS will close down. (Error checking is such a bother!)
CD		The happy little LYNX CD player.... (gee, has this been done before?)
MESS		Lets everyone in the chat room know that you have AOMESS
OPTS		Set your AOL path and toggle Sound FX on or off.
GAME		Yes..... you're reading right...... it IS...

			AOMESS4: The GAME

		A simple game to pass the time while downloading or waiting for 
		the coffee to brew. Nothing major, but I was REALLY bored one week
		and wrote this when there was nothing else to do.

That's all....cya.....  bye......


LYNX
